Premature optimization is the root of all evil. — Donald Knuth
Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it. — Donald Knuth
Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand. — Martin Fowler
There are only two hard things in computer science: cache invalidation and naming things. — Phil Karlton
Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
The competent programmer is fully aware of the strictly limited size of his own skull. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
If debugging is the process of removing software bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
Testing shows the presence, not the absence, of bugs. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
Elegance is not a dispensable luxury but a quality that decides between success and failure. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
The question of whether computers can think is like the question of whether submarines can swim. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
Computer science is no more about computers than astronomy is about telescopes. — Edsger W. Dijkstra
Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming. — Brian Kernighan
Debugging is twice as hard as writing the code in the first place. Therefore, if you write the code as cleverly as possible, you are, by definition, not smart enough to debug it. — Brian Kernighan
The most effective debugging tool is still careful thought, coupled with judiciously placed print statements. — Brian Kernighan
There are two ways of constructing a software design: one way is to make it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies, and the other way is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. — C.A.R. Hoare
I call it my billion-dollar mistake. It was the invention of the null reference. — C.A.R. Hoare
Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later. — Fred Brooks
The bearing of a child takes nine months, no matter how many women are assigned. — Fred Brooks
All programmers are optimists. — Fred Brooks
Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow. — Fred Brooks
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming is not worth knowing. — Alan Perlis
Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it. — Alan Perlis
It is better to have 100 functions operate on one data structure than 10 functions on 10 data structures. — Alan Perlis
If you have a procedure with 10 parameters, you probably missed some. — Alan Perlis
Optimization hinders evolution. — Alan Perlis
Be conservative in what you send, be liberal in what you accept. — Jon Postel
Organizations which design systems are constrained to produce designs which are copies of the communication structures of these organizations. — Melvin Conway
Make it work, make it right, make it fast. — Kent Beck
I'm not a great programmer; I'm just a good programmer with great habits. — Kent Beck
Do the simplest thing that could possibly work. — Ward Cunningham
Focus is a matter of deciding what things you're not going to do. — John Carmack
Talk is cheap. Show me the code. — Linus Torvalds
Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships. — Linus Torvalds
Fancy algorithms are slow when n is small, and n is usually small. — Rob Pike
The bigger the interface, the weaker the abstraction. — Rob Pike
A little copying is better than a little dependency. — Rob Pike
Clear is better than clever. — Rob Pike
Errors are values. — Rob Pike
All problems in computer science can be solved by another level of indirection. — David Wheeler
It's easier to ask forgiveness than it is to get permission. — Grace Hopper
The most dangerous phrase in the language is, 'We've always done it this way.' — Grace Hopper
Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. — Antoine de Saint-Exupery
You aren't gonna need it. — Ron Jeffries
Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow. — Eric S. Raymond
Code is read much more often than it is written. — Guido van Rossum
C makes it easy to shoot yourself in the foot; C++ makes it harder, but when you do, it blows away your whole leg. — Bjarne Stroustrup
There are only two kinds of languages: the ones people complain about and the ones nobody uses. — Bjarne Stroustrup
Simple things should be simple, complex things should be possible. — Alan Kay
The best way to predict the future is to invent it. — Alan Kay
It's not a bug, it's an undocumented feature. — Anonymous
